Readme sketch

    1. Download the software package ‘QDimSym’ from [URL]
    2. Unpack the zip-file in a folder of your choice.
    3. Add your chosen file location (/qdimsum-master) to your matlab path.


operatorTypes: A cell array marking each physical operator (states, measurements etc.) that appear in the physical problem of interest. For example, in a prepare and measure scenario with N preparations and M measurement operators, the cell array reads “{1:N N+(1:M)}”, i.e., the first N positions will correspond to preparations and the final M to the measurement operators. Similarly, in a bipartite Bell experiment with N measurement operators for each party, the cell array reads “{1:N N+(1:N)}”.
sampleOperators: creates a random sample of the physical operators of the problem of interest. To do this, one must first specify the rank of each operator. For states, one may always choose rank-one samples, and create a random normalized positive matrix. For measurements, the choice of ranks matters, and the random sample is generated by applying a random unitary to a complete set of computational basis operators. The set of samples must be outputted as a cell array in accordance with that used in operatorTypes.
sampleKraus: samples a random Kraus operator from a set of options determined by the problem of interest. For Bell inequalities, this corresponds to a shared entangled state. For distributed computation tasks, it reduces to the identity operator.
computeObjective: construct the objective function of the problem of interest.

symmetryGroupGenerators: specification of the symmetries one wishes to exploit. A symmetry corresponds to a permutation of the string of physical operators which leaves the objective function invariant. If there are N physical operators in the problem, the symmetry is specified by applying the relevant permutation to the list [1 … N]. If S_n is the permuted list corresponding to the n’th symmetry; the list of symmetries is returned as a matrix on the form “[S_1 S_2 S_3]”.


The application of summarization to a problem amounts to two parts. Firstly, reducing the number of linearly independent basis elements found through the sampling procedure. This number will decrease as the number of applied independent symmetries increases. Secondly, the final SDP matrix can be block-diagonalized. The size and number of these blocks depends on the specific symmetries identified. 
The software package offers several methods for symmetrized implementations of the NV hierarchy. 
    • ‘none’: No symmetrization; standard implementation of the NV hierarchy.
    • ‘reynolds’: computes the Reynold’s operator but performs no block-diagonalization of the SDP matrix. 
    • ‘isotypic’: computes the Reynold’s operator and performs a partial block-diagonalization of the SDP matrix corresponding a decomposition into isotypic components.
    • ‘irreps’: computes the Reynold’s operator and performs a complete block-diagonalization of the SDP matrix.
    • ‘blocks’:  identifies a complete block-diagonalization and computes the Reynold’s operator using only samples in that relevant space. Optionally, one may provide the block-diagonlizing unitary or the representations of the symmetry group.
  
Each of these methods offers a different degree of symmetrization which may be more or less relevant depending on the specific problem of interest.

findSymmetryGroupGenerators: for a given physical problem and its ambient group, this function finds generators of the corresponding symmetry group. This is a useful tool when the objective function has none or only few ‘obvious’ symmetries found by inspection. Despite the search for symmetries being fairly demanding, it is useful for small scale problems, as well as middle sized problems in which a lesser number of symmetries are already known.
